Bran’s bastard brother Jon Snow moved closer. “Keep the pony well in hand,” he whispered.
“And don’t look away. Father will know if you do.”
Bran kept his pony well in hand, and did not look away.
His father took off the man’s head with a single sure stroke. Blood sprayed out across the snow,
as red as summerwine. One of the horses reared and had to be restrained to keep from bolting.
Bran could not take his eyes off the blood. The snows around the stump drank it eagerly,
reddening as he watched.
The head bounced off a thick root and rolled. It came up near Greyjoy’s feet. Theon was a lean,
dark youth of nineteen who found everything amusing. He laughed, put his boot on the head, and
kicked it away.
“Ass,” Jon muttered, low enough so Greyjoy did not hear. He put a hand on Bran’s shoulder,
and Bran looked over at his bastard brother. “You did well,” Jon told him solemnly. Jon was
fourteen, an old hand at justice.
It seemed colder on the long ride back to Winterfell, though the wind had died by then and the
sun was higher in the sky. Bran rode with his brothers, well ahead of the main party, his pony
struggling hard to keep up with their horses.
“The deserter died bravely,” Robb said. He was big and broad and growing every day, with his
mother’s coloring, the fair skin, red-brown hair, and blue eyes of the Tullys of Riverrun. “He had
courage, at the least.”
“No,” Jon Snow said quietly. “It was not courage. This one was dead of fear. You could see it
in his eyes, Stark.” Jon’s eyes were a grey so dark they seemed almost black, but there was little
they did not see. He was of an age with Robb, but they did not look alike. Jon was slender where
Robb was muscular, dark where Robb was fair, graceful and quick where his half brother was
strong and fast.
Robb was not impressed. “The Others take his eyes,” he swore. “He died well. Race you to the
bridge?”
“Done,” Jon said, kicking his horse forward. Robb cursed and followed, and they galloped off
down the trail, Robb laughing and hooting, Jon silent and intent. The hooves of their horses
kicked up showers of snow as they went.
Bran did not try to follow. His pony could not keep up. He had seen the ragged man’s eyes, and
he was thinking of them now. After a while, the sound of Robb’s laughter receded, and the
woods grew silent again.
So deep in thought was he that he never heard the rest of the party until his father moved up to
ride beside him. “Are you well, Bran?” he asked, not unkindly.
“Yes, Father,” Bran told him. He looked up. Wrapped in his furs and leathers, mounted on his
great warhorse, his lord father loomed over him like a giant. “Robb says the man died bravely,
but Jon says he was afraid.”
“What do you think?” his father asked.
Bran thought about it. “Can a man still be brave if he’s afraid?”

