with the red door. Dany had her own room there, with a lemon tree outside her window. After
Ser Willem had died, the servants had stolen what little money they had left, and soon after they
had been put out of the big house. Dany had cried when the red door closed behind them forever.
They had wandered since then, from Braavos to Myr, from Myr to Tyrosh, and on to Qohor and
Volantis and Lys, never staying long in any one place. Her brother would not allow it. The
Usurper’s hired knives were close behind them, he insisted, though Dany had never seen one.
At first the magisters and archons and merchant princes were pleased to welcome the last
Targaryens to their homes and tables, but as the years passed and the Usurper continued to sit
upon the Iron Throne, doors closed and their lives grew meaner. Years past they had been forced
to sell their last few treasures, and now even the coin they had gotten from Mother’s crown had
gone. In the alleys and wine sinks of Pentos, they called her brother “the beggar king.” Dany did
not want to know what they called her.
“We will have it all back someday, sweet sister,” he would promise her. Sometimes his hands
shook when he talked about it. “The jewels and the silks, Dragonstone and King’s Landing, the
Iron Throne and the Seven Kingdoms, all they have taken from us, we will have it back.” Viserys
lived for that day. All that Daenerys wanted back was the big house with the red door, the lemon
tree outside her window, the childhood she had never known.
There came a soft knock on her door. “Come,” Dany said, turning away from the window.
Illyrio’s servants entered, bowed, and set about their business. They were slaves, a gift from one
of the magister’s many Dothraki friends. There was no slavery in the free city of Pentos.
Nonetheless, they were slaves. The old woman, small and grey as a mouse, never said a word,
but the girl made up for it. She was Illyrio’s favorite, a fair-haired, blue-eyed wench of sixteen
who chattered constantly as she worked.
They filled her bath with hot water brought up from the kitchen and scented it with fragrant
oils. The girl pulled the rough cotton tunic over Dany’s head and helped her into the tub. The
water was scalding hot, but Daenerys did not flinch or cry out. She liked the heat. It made her
feel clean. Besides, her brother had often told her that it was never too hot for a Targaryen. “Ours
is the house of the dragon,” he would say. “The fire is in our blood.”
The old woman washed her long, silver-pale hair and gently combed out the snags, all in
silence. The girl scrubbed her back and her feet and told her how lucky she was. “Drogo is so
rich that even his slaves wear golden collars. A hundred thousand men ride in his khalasar, and
his palace in Vaes Dothrak has two hundred rooms and doors of solid silver.” There was more
like that, so much more, what a handsome man the khal was, so tall and fierce, fearless in battle,
the best rider ever to mount a horse, a demon archer. Daenerys said nothing. She had always
assumed that she would wed Viserys when she came of age.
For centuries the Targaryens had married brother to sister, since Aegon the Conqueror had
taken his sisters to bride. The line must be kept pure, Viserys had told her a thousand times;
theirs was the kingsblood, the golden blood of old Valyria, the blood of the dragon. Dragons did
not mate with the beasts of the field, and Targaryens did not mingle their blood with that of
lesser men. Yet now Viserys schemed to sell her to a stranger, a barbarian.

