The palanquin slowed and stopped. The curtains were thrown back, and a slave offered a hand
to help Daenerys out. His collar, she noted, was ordinary bronze. Her brother followed, one hand
still clenched hard around his sword hilt. It took two strong men to get Magister Illyrio back on
his feet.
Inside the manse, the air was heavy with the scent of spices, pinchfire and sweet lemon and
cinnamon. They were escorted across the entry hall, where a mosaic of colored glass depicted the
Doom of Valyria. Oil burned in black iron lanterns all along the walls. Beneath an arch of
twining stone leaves, a eunuch sang their coming. “Viserys of the House Targaryen, the Third of
his Name,” he called in a high, sweet voice, “King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First
Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm. His sister, Daenerys Stormborn,
Princess of Dragonstone. His honorable host, Illyrio Mopatis, Magister of the Free City of
Pentos.”
They stepped past the eunuch into a pillared courtyard overgrown in pale ivy. Moonlight
painted the leaves in shades of bone and silver as the guests drifted among them. Many were
Dothraki horselords, big men with red-brown skin, their drooping mustachios bound in metal
rings, their black hair oiled and braided and hung with bells. Yet among them moved bravos and
sellswords from Pentos and Myr and Tyrosh, a red priest even fatter than Illyrio, hairy men from
the Port of Ibben, and lords from the Summer Isles with skin as black as ebony. Daenerys looked
at them all in wonder... and realized, with a sudden start of fear, that she was the only woman
there.
Illyrio whispered to them. “Those three are Drogo’s bloodriders, there,” he said. “By the pillar
is Khal Moro, with his son Rhogoro. The man with the green beard is brother to the Archon of
Tyrosh, and the man behind him is Ser Jorah Mormont.”
The last name caught Daenerys. “A knight?”
“No less.” Illyrio smiled through his beard. “Anointed with the seven oils by the High Septon
himself.”
“What is he doing here?” she blurted.
“The Usurper wanted his head,” Illyrio told them. “Some trifling affront. He sold some
poachers to a Tyroshi slaver instead of giving them to the Night’s Watch. Absurd law. A man
should be able to do as he likes with his own chattel.”
“I shall wish to speak with Ser Jorah before the night is done,” her brother said. Dany found
herself looking at the knight curiously. He was an older man, past forty and balding, but still
strong and fit. Instead of silks and cottons, he wore wool and leather. His tunic was a dark green,
embroidered with the likeness of a black bear standing on two legs.
She was still looking at this strange man from the homeland she had never known when
Magister Illyrio placed a moist hand on her bare shoulder. “Over there, sweet princess,” he
whispered, “there is the khal himself.”
Dany wanted to run and hide, but her brother was looking at her, and if she displeased him she
knew she would wake the dragon. Anxiously, she turned and looked at the man Viserys hoped
would ask to wed her before the night was done.

