JON
There were times-not many, but a few-when Jon Snow was glad he was a bastard. As he
filled his wine cup once more from a passing flagon, it struck him that this might be one of them.
He settled back in his place on the bench among the younger squires and drank. The sweet, fruity
taste of summerwine filled his mouth and brought a smile to his lips.
The Great Hall of Winterfell was hazy with smoke and heavy with the smell of roasted meat
and fresh-baked bread. Its grey stone walls were draped with banners. White, gold, crimson: the
direwolf of Stark, Baratheon’s crowned stag, the lion of Lannister. A singer was playing the high
harp and reciting a ballad, but down at this end of the hall his voice could scarcely be heard
above the roar of the fire, the clangor of pewter plates and cups, and the low mutter of a hundred
drunken conversations.
It was the fourth hour of the welcoming feast laid for the king. Jon’s brothers and sisters had
been seated with the royal children, beneath the raised platform where Lord and Lady Stark
hosted the king and queen. In honor of the occasion, his lord father would doubtless permit each
child a glass of wine, but no more than that. Down here on the benches, there was no one to stop
Jon drinking as much as he had a thirst for.
And he was finding that he had a man’s thirst, to the raucous delight of the youths around him,
who urged him on every time he drained a glass. They were fine company, and Jon relished the
stories they were telling, tales of battle and bedding and the hunt. He was certain that his
companions were more entertaining than the king’s offspring. He had sated his curiosity about
the visitors when they made their entrance. The procession had passed not a foot from the place
he had been given on the bench, and Jon had gotten a good long look at them all.
His lord father had come first, escorting the queen. She was as beautiful as men said. A jeweled
tiara gleamed amidst her long golden hair, its emeralds a perfect match for the green of her eyes.
His father helped her up the steps to the dais and led her to her seat, but the queen never so much
as looked at him. Even at fourteen, Jon could see through her smile.
Next had come King Robert himself, with Lady Stark on his arm. The king was a great
disappointment to Jon. His father had talked of him often: the peerless Robert Baratheon, demon
of the Trident, the fiercest warrior of the realm, a giant among princes. Jon saw only a fat man,
red-faced under his beard, sweating through his silks. He walked like a man half in his cups.
After them came the children. Little Rickon first, managing the long walk with all the dignity a
three-year-old could muster. Jon had to urge him on when he stopped to visit. Close behind came
Robb, in grey wool trimmed with white, the Stark colors. He had the Princess Myrcella on his
arm. She was a wisp of a girl, not quite eight, her hair a cascade of golden curls under a jeweled
net. Jon noticed the shy looks she gave Robb as they passed between the tables and the timid
way she smiled at him. He decided she was insipid. Robb didn’t even have the sense to realize
how stupid she was; he was grinning like a fool.
His half sisters escorted the royal princes. Arya was paired with plump young Tommen, whose
white-blond hair was longer than hers. Sansa, two years older, drew the crown prince, Joffrey

