Baratheon. He was twelve, younger than Jon or Robb, but taller than either, to Jon’s vast dismay.
Prince Joffrey had his sister’s hair and his mother’s deep green eyes. A thick tangle of blond
curls dripped down past his golden choker and high velvet collar. Sansa looked radiant as she
walked beside him, but Jon did not like Joffrey’s pouty lips or the bored, disdainful way he
looked at Winterfell’s Great Hall.
He was more interested in the pair that came behind him: the queen’s brothers, the Lannisters of
Casterly Rock. The Lion and the Imp; there was no mistaking which was which. Ser Jaime
Lannister was twin to Queen Cersei; tall and golden, with flashing green eyes and a smile that
cut like a knife. He wore crimson silk, high black boots, a black satin cloak. On the breast of his
tunic, the lion of his House was embroidered in gold thread, roaring its defiance. They called him
the Lion of Lannister to his face and whispered “Kingslayer” behind his back.
Jon found it hard to look away from him. This is what a king should look like, he thought to
himself as the man passed.
Then he saw the other one, waddling along half-hidden by his brother’s side. Tyrion Lannister,
the youngest of Lord Tywin’s brood and by far the ugliest. All that the gods had given to Cersei
and Jaime, they had denied Tyrion. He was a dwarf, half his brother’s height, struggling to keep
pace on stunted legs. His head was too large for his body, with a brute’s squashed-in face
beneath a swollen shelf of brow. One green eye and one black one peered out from under a lank
fall of hair so blond it seemed white. Jon watched him with fascination.
The last of the high lords to enter were his uncle, Benjen Stark of the Night’s Watch, and his
father’s ward, young Theon Greyjoy. Benjen gave Jon a warm smile as he went by. Theon
ignored him utterly, but there was nothing new in that. After all had been seated, toasts were
made, thanks were given and returned, and then the feasting began.
Jon had started drinking then, and he had not stopped.
Something rubbed against his leg beneath the table. Jon saw red eyes staring up at him.
“Hungry again?” he asked. There was still half a honeyed chicken in the center of the table. Jon
reached out to tear off a leg, then had a better idea. He knifed the bird whole and let the carcass
slide to the floor between his legs. Ghost ripped into it in savage silence. His brothers and sisters
had not been permitted to bring their wolves to the banquet, but there were more curs than Jon
could count at this end of the hall, and no one had said a word about his pup. He told himself he
was fortunate in that too.
His eyes stung. Jon rubbed at them savagely, cursing the smoke. He swallowed another gulp of
wine and watched his direwolf devour the chicken.
Dogs moved between the tables, trailing after the serving girls. One of them, a black mongrel
bitch with long yellow eyes, caught a scent of the chicken. She stopped and edged under the
bench to get a share. Jon watched the confrontation. The bitch growled low in her throat and
moved closer. Ghost looked up, silent, and fixed the dog with those hot red eyes. The bitch
snapped an angry challenge. She was three times the size of the direwolf pup. Ghost did not
move. He stood over his prize and opened his mouth, baring his fangs. The bitch tensed, barked

