Sansa, of course, had named her pup “Lady.” Arya made a face and hugged the wolfling tight.
Nymeria licked her ear, and she giggled.
By now Septa Mordane would certainly have sent word to her lady mother. If she went to her
room, they would find her. Arya did not care to be found. She had a better notion. The boys were
at practice in the yard. She wanted to see Robb put gallant Prince Joffrey flat on his back.
“Come,” she whispered to Nymeria. She got up and ran, the wolf coming hard at her heels.
There was a window in the covered bridge between the armory and the Great Keep where you
had a view of the whole yard. That was where they headed.
They arrived, flushed and breathless, to find Jon seated on the sill, one leg drawn up languidly
to his chin. He was watching the action, so absorbed that he seemed unaware of her approach
until his white wolf moved to meet them. Nymeria stalked closer on wary feet. Ghost, already
larger than his litter mates, smelled her, gave her ear a careful nip, and settled back down.
Jon gave her a curious look. “Shouldn’t you be working on your stitches, little sister?”
Arya made a face at him. “I wanted to see them fight.”
He smiled. “Come here, then.”
Arya climbed up on the window and sat beside him, to a chorus of thuds and grunts from the
yard below.
To her disappointment, it was the younger boys drilling. Bran was so heavily padded he looked
as though he had belted on a featherbed, and Prince Tommen, who was plump to begin with,
seemed positively round. They were huffing and puffing and hitting at each other with padded
wooden swords under the watchful eye of old Ser Rodrik Cassel, the master-at-arms, a great
stout keg of a man with magnificent white cheek whiskers. A dozen spectators, man and boy,
were calling out encouragement, Robb’s voice the loudest among them. She spotted Theon
Greyjoy beside him, his black doublet emblazoned with the golden kraken of his House, a look
of wry contempt on his face. Both of the combatants were staggering. Arya judged that they had
been at it awhile.
“A shade more exhausting than needlework,” Jon observed.
“A shade more fun than needlework,” Arya gave back at him. Jon grinned, reached over, and
messed up her hair. Arya flushed. They had always been close. Jon had their father’s face, as she
did. They were the only ones. Robb and Sansa and Bran and even little Rickon all took after the
Tullys, with easy smiles and fire in their hair. When Arya had been little, she had been afraid that
meant that she was a bastard too. It been Jon she had gone to in her fear, and Jon who had
reassured her.
“Why aren’t you down in the yard?” Arya asked him.
He gave her a half smile. “Bastards are not allowed to damage young princes,” he said. “Any
bruises they take in the practice yard must come from trueborn swords.”
“Oh.” Arya felt abashed. She should have realized. For the second time today, Arya reflected
that life was not fair.
She watched her little brother whack at Tommen. “I could do just as good as Bran,” she said.
“He’s only seven. I’m nine.”

