head while all the life of the castle went on below. Bran could perch for hours among the
shapeless, rain-worn gargoyles that brooded over the First Keep, watching it all: the men drilling
with wood and steel in the yard, the cooks tending their vegetables in the glass garden, restless
dogs running back and forth in the kennels, the silence of the godswood, the girls gossiping
beside the washing well. It made him feel like he was lord of the castle, in a way even Robb
would never know.
It taught him Winterfell’s secrets too. The builders had not even leveled the earth; there were
hills and valleys behind the walls of Winterfell. There was a covered bridge that went from the
fourth floor of the bell tower across to the second floor of the rookery. Bran knew about that.
And he knew you could get inside the inner wall by the south gate, climb three floors and run all
the way around Winterfell through a narrow tunnel in the stone, and then come out on ground
level at the north gate, with a hundred feet of wall looming over you. Even Maester Luwin didn’t
know that, Bran was convinced.
His mother was terrified that one day Bran would slip off a wall and kill himself. He told her
that he wouldn’t, but she never believed him. Once she made him promise that he would stay on
the ground. He had managed to keep that promise for almost a fortnight, miserable every day,
until one night he had gone out the window of his bedroom when his brothers were fast asleep.
He confessed his crime the next day in a fit of guilt. Lord Eddard ordered him to the godswood
to cleanse himself. Guards were posted to see that Bran remained there alone all night to reflect
on his disobedience. The next morning Bran was nowhere to be seen. They finally found him fast
asleep in the upper branches of the tallest sentinel in the grove.
As angry as he was, his father could not help but laugh. “You’re not my son,” he told Bran
when they fetched him down, “you’re a squirrel. So be it. If you must climb, then climb, but try
not to let your mother see you.”
Bran did his best, although he did not think he ever really footed her. Since his father would not
forbid it, she turned to others. Old Nan told him a story about a bad little boy who climbed too
high and was struck down by lightning, and how afterward the crows came to peck out his eyes.
Bran was not impressed. There were crows’ nests atop the broken tower, where no one ever went
but him, and sometimes he filled his pockets with corn before he climbed up there and the crows
ate it right out of his hand. None of them had ever shown the slightest bit of interest in pecking
out his eyes.
Later, Maester Luwin built a little pottery boy and dressed him in Bran’s clothes and flung him
off the wall into the yard below, to demonstrate what would happen to Bran if he fell. That had
been fun, but afterward Bran just looked at the maester and said, “I’m not made of clay. And
anyhow, I never fall.”
Then for a while the guards would chase him whenever they saw him on the roofs, and try to
haul him down. That was the best time of all. It was like playing a game with his brothers, except
that Bran always won. None of the guards could climb half so well as Bran, not even Jory. Most
of the time they never saw him anyway. People never looked up. That was another thing he liked
about climbing; it was almost like being invisible.

