Eddard Stark in his face, something as stern and hard as the north. “What am I doing?” she
echoed, puzzled. “How can you ask that? What do you imagine I’m doing? I am taking care of
your brother. I am taking care of Bran.”
“Is that what you call it? You haven’t left this room since Bran was hurt. You didn’t even come
to the gate when Father and the girls went south.”
“I said my farewells to them here, and watched them ride out from that window.” She had
begged Ned not to go, not now, not after what had happened; everything had changed now,
couldn’t he see that? It was no use. He had no choice, he had told her, and then he left, choosing.
“I can’t leave him, even for a moment, not when any moment could be his last. I have to be with
him, if... if.”She took her son’s limp hand, sliding his fingers through her own. He was so frail
and thin, with no strength left in his hand, but she could still feel the warmth of life through his
skin.
Robb’s voice softened. “He’s not going to die, Mother. Maester Luwin says the time of greatest
danger has passed.”
“And what if Maester Luwin is wrong? What if Bran needs me and I’m not here?”
“Rickon needs you,” Robb said sharply. “He’s only three, he doesn’t understand what’s
happening. He thinks everyone has deserted him, so he follows me around all day, clutching my
leg and crying. I don’t know what to do with him.” He paused a moment, chewing on his lower
lip the way he’d done when he was little. “Mother, I need you too. I’m trying but I can’t... I can’t
do it all by myself.” His voice broke with sudden emotion, and Catelyn remembered that he was
only fourteen. She wanted to get up and go to him, but Bran was still holding her hand and she
could not move.
Outside the tower, a wolf began to howl. Catelyn trembled, just for a second.
“Bran’s.” Robb opened the window and let the night air into the stuffy tower room. The
howling grew louder. It was a cold and lonely sound, full of melancholy and despair.
“Don’t,” she told him. “Bran needs to stay warm.”
“He needs to hear them sing,” Robb said. Somewhere out in Winterfell, a second wolf began to
howl in chorus with the first. Then a third, closer. “Shaggydog and Grey Wind,” Robb said as
their voices rose and fell together. “You can tell them apart if you listen close.”
Catelyn was shaking. It was the grief, the cold, the howling of the direwolves. Night after night,
the howling and the cold wind and the grey empty castle, on and on they went, never changing,
and her boy lying there broken, the sweetest of her children, the gentlest, Bran who loved to
laugh and climb and dreamt of knighthood, all gone now, she would never hear him laugh again.
Sobbing, she pulled her hand free of his and covered her ears against those terrible howls. “Make
them stop!” she cried. “I can’t stand it, make them stop, make them stop, kill them all if you
must, just make them stop!”
She didn’t remember falling to the floor, but there she was, and Robb was lifting her, holding
her in strong arms. “Don’t be afraid, Mother. They would never hurt him.” He helped her to her
narrow bed in the corner of the sickroom. “Close your eyes,” he said gently. “Rest. Maester
Luwin tells me you’ve hardly slept since Bran’s fall.”

