“I’m not,” Arya said, trying to brush a tangle out of Nymeria’s matted grey fur. “Mycah and I
are going to ride upstream and look for rubies at the ford.”
“Rubies,” Sansa said, lost. “What rubies?”
Arya gave her a look like she was so stupid. “Rhaegar’s rubies. This is where King Robert
killed him and won the crown.”
Sansa regarded her scrawny little sister in disbelief. “You can’t look for rubies, the princess is
expecting us. The queen invited us both.”
“I don’t care,” Arya said. “The wheelhouse doesn’t even have windows, you can’t see a thing.”
“What could you want to see?” Sansa said, annoyed. She had been thrilled by the invitation,
and her stupid sister was going to ruin everything, just as she’d feared. “It’s all just fields and
farms and holdfasts.”
“It is not,” Arya said stubbornly. “If you came with us sometimes, you’d see.”
“I hate riding,” Sansa said fervently. “All it does is get you soiled and dusty and sore.”
Arya shrugged. “Hold still, “ she snapped at Nymeria, “I’m not hurting you.” Then to Sansa she
said, “When we were crossing the Neck, I counted thirty-six flowers I never saw before, and
Mycah showed me a lizard-lion.”
Sansa shuddered. They had been twelve days crossing the Neck, rumbling down a crooked
causeway through an endless black bog, and she had hated every moment of it. The air had been
damp and clammy, the causeway so narrow they could not even make proper camp at night, they
had to stop right on the kingsroad. Dense thickets of halfdrowned trees pressed close around
them, branches dripping with curtains of pale fungus. Huge flowers bloomed in the mud and
floated on pools of stagnant water, but if you were stupid enough to leave the causeway to pluck
them, there were quicksands waiting to suck you down, and snakes watching from the trees, and
lizard-lions floating half-submerged in the water, like black logs with eyes and teeth.
None of which stopped Arya, of course. One day she came back grinning her horsey grin, her
hair all tangled and her clothes covered in mud, clutching a raggedy bunch of purple and green
flowers for Father. Sansa kept hoping he would tell Arya to behave herself and act like the
highborn lady she was supposed to be, but he never did, he only hugged her and thanked her for
the flowers. That just made her worse.
Then it turned out the purple flowers were called poison kisses, and Arya got a rash on her
arms. Sansa would have thought that might have taught her a lesson, but Arya laughed about it,
and the next day she rubbed mud all over her arms like some ignorant bog woman just because
her friend Mycah told her it would stop the itching. She had bruises on her arms and shoulders
too, dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches, Sansa had seen them when her
sister undressed for sleep. How she had gotten those only the seven gods knew.
Arya was still going on, brushing out Nymeria’s tangles and chattering about things she’d seen
on the trek south. “Last week we found this haunted watchtower, and the day before we chased a
herd of wild horses. You should have seen them run when they caught a scent of Nymeria.” The
wolf wriggled in her grasp and Arya scolded her. “Stop that, I have to do the other side, you’re
all muddy.”

