124

DIFFRACTION

II

THE INTENSITIES OF DIFFRACTED BEAMS

:

[CHAP. 4

4-8 Multiplicity factor. Consider the 100 reflection from a cubic latIn the powder specimen, some of the crystals will be so oriented that
Other crystals of different
reflection can occur from their (100) planes.
can occur from their
reflection
that
a
in
such
be
orientation may
position
same spacing, the
the
have
all
these
Since
planes
(010) or (001) planes.

tice.

by them all form part of the same cone. Now consider
the 111 reflection. There are four sets of planes of the form {111) which
have the same spacing but different orientation, namely, (111), (111),
the form (100).
(111), and (ill), whereas there are only three sets of

beams

diffracted

Therefore, the probability that {111 } planes will be correctly oriented for
reflection is f the probability that {100} planes will be correctly oriented.
It follows that the intensity of the 1 11 reflection will be f that of the 100

other things being equal.
This relative proportion of planes contributing to the same reflection
enters the intensity equation as the quantity p, the multiplicity factor,
which may be defined as the number of different planes in a form having
reflection,

the same spacing. Parallel planes with different Miller indices, such as
num(100) and (TOO), are counted separately as different planes, yielding
the
Thus
in
the
bers which are double those given
preceding paragraph.
multiplicity factor for the {100} planes of a cubic crystal

{111} planes

is

6 and for the

8.

The value of p depends on the crystal system: in a tegragonal crystal,
the (100) and (001) planes do not have the same spacing, so that the value
of p for {100} planes is reduced to 4 and the value for {001} planes to 2.
Values of the multiplicity factor as a function of hkl and crystal system
are given in

Appendix

9.

4-9 Lorentz factor. We must now consider certain trigonometrical factors which influence the intensity of the reflected beam. Suppose there is
incident on a crystal [Fig. 4-13 (a)] a narrow beam of parallel monochromatic rays, and let the" crystal be rotated at a uniform angular velocity
about an axis through
set of reflecting planes,
tal surface, passes
satisfied.

and normal to the drawing, so that a particular
assumed for convenience to be parallel to the crys-

through the angle

As mentioned

fe, at

which the Bragg law

in Sec. 3-7, the intensity of reflection

is
is

exactly
greatest

at the exact Bragg angle but still appreciable at angles deviating slightly
from the Bragg angle, so that a curve of intensity vs. 20 is of the form
shown in Fig. 4-13 (b). If all the diffracted beams sent out by the crystal
as it rotates through the Bragg angle are received on a photographic film
or in a counter, the total energy of the diffracted beam can be measured.

This energy is called the integrated intensity of the reflection and is given
by the area under the curve of Fig. 4-13 (b). The integrated intensity is
of much more interest than the maximum intensity, since the former is

