DIFFRACTION

130

III

THE INTENSITIES OF DIFFRACTED BEAMS

[CHAP. 4

high-0 and low-0 reflections decreases as the linear absorption coefficient
of the specimen decreases, but the absorption is always greater for the
low-0 reflections. (These remarks apply only to the cylindrical specimen

used in the Debye-Scherrer method. The absorption factor has an entirely
different form for the flat-plate specimen used in a diffractometer, as will
be shown in Sec. 7-4.)
Exact calculation of the absorption factor for a cylindrical specimen is
often difficult, so it is fortunate that this effect can usually be neglected in
the calculation of diffracted intensities, when the Debye-Scherrer method
Justification of this omission will be found in the next section.
is used.

4-11 Temperature
collection of

factor.

atoms located at

So far we have considered a crystal as a
fixed points in the lattice.

Actually, the

atoms undergo thermal vibration about their mean positions even at the
absolute zero of temperature, and the amplitude of this vibration increases
In aluminum at room temperature, the
as the temperature increases.
from its mean position is about 0.1 7 A,
an
atom
of
average displacement
which is by no means negligible, being about 6 percent of the distance of
closest

approach of the mean atom positions

in this crystal.

^Thermal agitation decreases the intensity of a diffracted beam because
it has the effect of smearing out the lattice planes;* atoms can be regarded
as lying no longer on mathematical planes but rather in platelike regions
of ill-defined thickness. Thus the reinforcement of waves scattered at the

Bragg angle by various parallel planes, the reinforcement which is called a
beam, is not as perfect as it is for a crystal with fixed atoms.
This reinforcement requires that the path difference, which is a function
of the plane spacing d, between waves scattered by adjacent planes be an

diffracted

number

integral

of wavelengths.

Now

the thickness of the platelike

which the vibrating atoms lie is, on the average, 2?/, where
"planes'
u is the average displacement of an atom from its mean position. Under
these conditions reinforcement is no longer perfect, and it becomes more
'

in

imperfect as the ratio u/d increases, i.e., as the temperature increases,
since that increases u, or as
increases, since high-0 reflections involve
planes of low d value. TThus the intensity of a diffracted beam decreases
as the temperature is raised, and, for a constant temperature, thermal
vibration causes a greater decrease in the reflected intensity at high angles

than at low angles. /
The temperature effect and the previously discussed absorption effect
in cylindrical specimens therefore depend on angle in opposite ways and,
to a first approximation, cancel each other. In back reflection, for examthe intensity of a diffracted beam is decreased very little by absorption
but very greatly by thermal agitation, while in the forward direction the
reverse is true. The two effects do not exactly cancel one other at all
ple,

