TEMPERATURE FACTOR

4-11]

131

angles; however, if the comparison of line intensities is restricted to lines
not differing too greatly in 6 values, the absorption and temperature effects
can be safely ignored. This is. a fortunate circumstance, since both of

these effects are rather difficult to calculate exactly.
It should be noted here that thermal vibration of the atoms of a crystal
does not cause any broadening of the diffraction lines; they remain sharp
point, but their maximum intensity gradually deworth noting that the mean amplitude of atomic vibration is not a function of the temperature alone but depends also on the
elastic constants of the crystal. At any given temperature, the less "stiff"
the crystal, the greater the vibration amplitude u. This means that u
is much greater at any one temperature for a soft, low-melting-point metal
Substances with low melting points
like lead than it is for, say, tungsten.

up to the melting

right

It is also

creases.

have quite large values of u even at room temperature and therefore yield
rather poor back-reflection photographs.
The thermal vibration of atoms has another effect on diffraction patBesides decreasing the intensity of diffraction lines, it causes some
This is called temperaturegeneral coherent scattering in all directions.
it
to
the
contributes
only
diffuse scattering;
general background of the
terns.

pattern and
lines

its

intensity gradually increases with 26.

and background naturally

suffers, so this effect

is

Contrast between

a very undesirable

one, leading in extreme cases to diffraction lines in the back-reflection
region scarcely distinguishable from the background.
In the phenomenon of temperature-diffuse scattering we have another

example, beyond those alluded to in Sec. 3-7, of scattering at non-Bragg
Here again it is not surprising that such scattering should occur,

angles.

since the displacement of

atoms from

their

mean

positions constitutes a

kind of crystal imperfection and leads to a partial breakdown of the conditions necessary for perfect destructive interference

tered at non-Bragg angles.
The effect of thermal vibration also illustrates

between rays scat-

what has been

called

"

This law
"the approximate law of conservation of diffracted energy.
a
under
the
diffracted
states that
total energy
by particular specimen
particular experimental conditions is roughly constant.

Therefore, anything
specimen does not alter the total
distribution in space. This "law"

done to

alter the physical condition of the

amount

of diffracted energy but only its

all rigorous, but it does prove helpful in considering many diffracphenomena. For example, at low temperatures there is very little
background scattering due to thermal agitation and the diffraction lines
is

not at

tion

are relatively intense; if the specimen is now heated to a high temperature,
the lines will become quite weak and the energy which is lost from
the lines will appear in a spread-out form as temperature-diffuse scattering.

