CHAPTER

5

LAUE PHOTOGRAPHS
6-1 Introduction.

The experimental methods used

in obtaining diffrac-

tion patterns will be described in this chapter and the two following ones.
Here we are concerned with the Laue method only from the experimental
its main applications will Be dealt with in Chap. 8.
Laue photographs are the easiest kind of diffraction pattern to make and
require only the simplest kind of apparatus. White radiation is necessary,
and the best source is a tube with a heavy-meta! target, such as tungsten,

viewpoint;

since the intensity of the continuous

number

of the target metal.

is proportional to the atomic
patterns can also be obtained with

spectrum

Good

radiation from other metals, such as molybdenum or copper. Ordinarily,
the presence of strong characteristic components, such as
Lai, Cu Ka,
Ka, etc., in the radiation used, does not complicate the diffraction
pattern in any way or introduce difficulties in its interpretation. Such a

W

Mo

will only be reflected if a set of planes in the crystal happens to
be oriented in just such a way that the Bragg law is satisfied for that component, and then the only effect will be the formation of a Laue spot of

component

exceptionally high intensity.

The specimen used in the Laue method is a single crystal. This may
mean an isolated single crystal or one particular crystal grain, not too
small, in a polycrystalline aggregate. The only restriction on the size of a
crystal in a polycrystalline mass is that it must be no smaller than the
incident x-ray beam, if the pattern obtained is to correspond to that crystal
alone.

Laue spots are often formed by overlapping reflections of different
For example, the 100, 200, 300,
reflections are all superimposed

orders.

.

.

.

since the corresponding planes, (100), (200), (300), ... are all parallel.
The first-order reflection is made up of radiation of wavelength X, the

second-order of X/2, the third-order of X/3, etc.,
wavelength limit of the continuous spectrum.

down

to XSWL, the short-

The position of any Laue spot is unaltered by a change in plane spacing,
since the only effect of such a change is to alter the wavelength of the
beam. It follows that two crystals of the same orientation and
crystal structure, but of different lattice parameter, will produce identical

diffracted

Laue

patterns.

5-2 Cameras.

Laue cameras are so simple to construct that homemany laboratories. Figure 5-1 shows
a typical transmission camera, in this case a commercial unit, and Fig.

made models

are found in a great

138

