SPECIMEN HOLDERS

5-3]

143

they would ordinarily bo. Each particle of the screen which is struck by
x-rays emits light in all directions and therefore blackens the film outside
the region blackened by the diffracted beam itself, as suggested in Fig. 5-5.
This effect is aggravated by the fact that most x-ray film is double-coated,
the two layers of emulsion being separated by an appreciable thickness of

Even when an

film base.

intensifying screen

is

not used, double-coated

formed by an obliquely incident
beam to be larger than the cross section of the beam itself; in extreme
cases, an apparent doubling of the diffraction spot results, as shown in
film causes the size of a diffraction spot

Fig. 5-0.

5-3 Specimen holders.

Before going into the question of specimen

holders, we might consider the specimen itself
Obviously, a specimen for
the transmission method must have low enough absorption to transmit the
diffracted beams; in practice, this means that relatively thick specimens
of a light element like aluminum may be used but that the thickness of a
fairly

heavy element

like

copper must be reduced, by etching, for example,

On the other hand, the specimen must
not be too thin or the diffracted intensity will be too low, since the intensity
of a diffracted beam is proportional to the volume of diffracting material.
to a few thousandths of an inch

In the back-reflection method, there is no restriction on the specimen
thickness and quite massive specimens may be examined, since the diffracted beams originate in only a thin surface layer of the specimen. This

one which

between the two methods may be stated in another way and
is well worth remembering: any information about a thick

specimen

obtained by the back-reflection method applies only to a

difference

thin surface layer of that specimen,

whereas information recorded on a
transmission pattern is represent at ive
of the complete thickness of the speci-

men, simply because the transmission
specimen must necessarily be thin
enough to transmit diffracted beams
from all parts of its cross section.*
There is a large variety of specimen
holders in use, each suited to some
particular

purpose.

The

consists of a fixed post to

specimen
plasticine.

'

attached with

wax

or

A more elaborate holder is

when it is necessary to set a
in some particular orientation

required
crystal

is

simplest

which the

FIG* 5-7. Goniometer with
rotation axes,
(Courtesy of

Supper Co,)

See Sec. 9-5 for further discussion of this point.

