SPECIMEN PREPARATION

6-3]

153

The use of slits instead of pinholes decreases exposure time by increasing the irradiated volume of the specimen, but requires more accurate
positioning of the camera relative to the source and produces diffraction
men.

lines

which are sharp only along the median

line of the film.

6-8 Specimen preparation. Metals and alloys may be converted to
powder by filing or, if they are sufficiently brittle, by grinding in a small
agate mortar. In either case, the powder should be filed or ground as
pass a 325-mesh screen, in order to produce
smooth, continuous diffraction lines. The screened powder is usually annealed in evacuated glass or quartz capsules in order to relieve the strains
fine as possible, preferably to

due to

filing or grinding.
If a
Special precautions are necessary in screening two-phase alloys.
small, representative sample is selected from an ingot for x-ray analysis,
then that entire sample must be ground or filed to pass through the screen.

The common method

of grinding until

an amount

sufficient for the x-ray

specimen has passed the screen, the oversize being rejected, may lead to
very erroneous results. One phase of the alloy is usually more brittle than
the other, and that phase will more easily be ground into fine particles; if
the grinding and screening are interrupted at any point, then the material
remaining on the screen will contain less of the more brittle phase than the
original

sample while the undersize

will

contain more, and neither will be

representative.

The

final

rod, 0.5

specimen for the Debye camera should be in the form of a thin
or less in diameter and about 1 cm long. There are various

mm

ways of preparing such a specimen, one of the simplest being to coat the
powder on the surface of a fine glass fiber with a small amount of glue or
petroleum jelly. Other methods consist in packing the powder into a thin-

made of a weakly absorbing substance such as cellophane or
lithium borate glass, or in extruding a mixture of powder and binder
through a small hole. Polycrystalline wires may be used directly, but
since they usually exhibit some preferred orientation, the resulting diffracwalled tube

tion pattern must be interpreted with that fact in mind (Chap. 9). Strongly
absorbing substances may produce split low-angle lines (see Sec. 4-10);
if this effect becomes troublesome, it may be eliminated by diluting the

substance involved with some weakly absorbing substance, so that the
absorption coefficient of the composite specimen is low. Both flour and
cornstarch have been used for this purpose. The diluent chosen should

not produce any strong diffraction lines of its own and too much of it
should not be used, or the lines from the substance being examined will

become spotty.
After the specimen rod is prepared, it is mounted in its holder so that it
along the axis of the camera when the specimen holder

will lie accurately

