DIFFRACTOMETER MEASUREMENTS

Ig2

The counter is set near 26 =
counting-rate meter. The output of this circuit is
(1)

Continuous.

[CHAP. 7

and connected to a

fed into a fast-acting
automatic recorder of the kind used to record temperature changes as
measured by a thermocouple. The counter is then driven at a constant

the whole angular
angular velocity through increasing values of 20 until
on the recorder
range is "scanned." At the same time, the paper chart
moves at a constant speed, so that distances along the length of the chart
are proportional to 26. The result is a chart, such as Fig. 7-4, which gives
a record of counts per second (proportional to diffracted intensity) vs. diffraction angle 26.
(2) Intermittent.

connected to a sealer and set at a fixed
value of 26 for a time sufficient to make an accurate count of the pulses
obtained from the counter. The counter is then moved to a new angular
whole range of 26 is covered in
position and the operation repeated. The
this fashion, and the curve of intensity vs. 26 is finally plotted by hand.

When

The counter

is

the continuous background between diffraction lines is being measmay be moved in steps of several degrees, but determina-

ured, the counter

tions of line profile may require measurements of intensity at angular
This method of obtaining a diffraction pattern
intervals as small as 0.01
.

is

much

slower than that involving a rate meter and automatic recorder

but it yields more precise measurements of intensity.
There is a fundamental difference between the operation of a powder
camera and a diffractometer. In a camera, all diffraction lines are recorded
simultaneously, and variations in the intensity of the incident x-ray beam
On
during the exposure can have no effect on relative line intensities.
the other hand, with a diffractometer, diffraction lines are recorded one

and it is therefore imperative to keep the incident-beam
when relative line intensities must be measured accuconstant
intensity
variations in line voltage are quite appreciable,
usual
Since
the
rately.
the x-ray tube circuit of a diffractometer must include a voltage stabilizer
and a tube-current stabilizer, unless a monitoring system is used (see
after the other,

Sec. 7-8).

The kind

of specimen used

depends on the form and amount of material

Flat metal sheet or plate may be examined directly; however,
such materials almost always exhibit preferred orientation and this fact
must be kept in mind in assessing relative intensities. This is also true of
available.

side by
wires, which are best examined by cementing a number of lengths
This plate is then inserted in the specimen holder
side to a glass plate.
so that the wire axes are at right angles to the diffractometer axis.
are best prepared by placing the powder in a recess in
Powder

specimens
a glass or plastic plate, compacting it under just sufficient pressure to
cause cohesion without use of a binder, and smoothing off the surface.
Too much pressure causes preferred orientation of the powder particles.
the
Alternately, the powder may be mixed with a binder and smeared on

