DIFFRACTOMETER MEASUREMENTS

184

[CHAP. 7

surface of a glass slide. The powder should be ground extremely fine, to a
microns or less, if relative line intensities are to be accurately

size of 10

as a Debye-Scherrer
reproducible; since the flat specimen is not rotated
an
of
the
adequate number of particles
obtaining
only way
specimen is,
is
to reduce their average size.
reflection
for
orientation
correct
having the

Surface roughness also has a marked effect on relative line intensities. If
the surface is rough, as in the case of a coarse powder compact, and the
linear absorption coefficient high, the intensities of low-angle reflections

be abnormally low, because of the absorption of the diffracted rays in
each projecting portion of the surface. The only way to avoid this effect
with
is to use a flat-surfaced compact of very fine powders or a specimen
will

a polished surface.

not enough powder is available for a flat specimen, a thin-rod specimen of the kind used in Debye-Scherrer cameras may be used it is mounted
on the diffractometer axis and continuously rotated by a small motor
However, the use of such a small specimen should be
If

;

(see Fig. 7-3).

avoided

if

possible, since

obtainable with a

flat,

it

leads to intensities very

much

lower than those

specimen.

may also be examined in a diffractometer by
a
three-circle
on
goniometer, such as that shown in
mounting the crystal
of the specimen and counrotation
Fig. 5-7, which will allow independent
Single-crystal specimens

about the diffractometer axis.
diffractometer may be used for measurements at high or low temperatures by surrounding the specimen with the appropriate heating or cooling
Such an adaptation of the instrument is much easier with the difunit.

ter

A

fractometer than with a camera because of the generally larger amount of
free working space around the specimen in the former.
In the succeeding sections, the various parts of the diffractometer will
be described in greater detail. This summary of the general features of
the instrument is enough to show its principal advantage over the powder

camera: the quantitative measurement of line position and intensity is
made in one operation with a diffractometer, whereas the same measurement with film technique requires three steps (recording the pattern on
film,

making a microphotometer record

of the film,

and conversion

of

leads to an over-all result

galvanometer deflections to intensities) and
which is generally of lower accuracy. This superiority of the diffractometer
is reflected in the much higher cost of the instrument, a cost due not only
to the precision machining necessary in its mechanical parts but also to
the expensive circuits needed to stabilize the power supply and measure

the intensity of diffracted beams.
chief reason for using a flat specimen is to take
action
described in Sec. 6-6 and so increase the
advantage of the focusing

7-3 X-ray

optics.

The

