SCINTILLATION COUNTERS

7-7]

7-7 Scintillation counters.

201

This type of counter

utilizes

the ability of

x-rays to cause certain substances to fluoresce visible light. The amount
of light emitted is proportional to the x-ray intensity and can be measured
by means of a phototube. Since the amount of light emitted is small, a
special kind of

phototube called a photomultiplier has to be employed

order to obtain a measurable current output.
The substance generally used to detect x-rays

amount of
The crystal

activated with a small

thallium.

x-ray bombardment.

is

is

in

a sodium iodide crystal

It emits blue light

under

cemented to the face of a photoand shielded from external light

.multiplier tube, as indicated in Fig. 7-18,

by means of aluminum foil. A flash of light is produced in the crystal for
every x-ray quantum absorbed, and this light passes into the photomultiplier tube and ejects a number of electrons from the photocathode, vhich
is a photosensitive material generally made of a caesium-antimony intermetallic

compound.

in Fig. 7-18.)

(For simplicity, only one of these electrons is shown
electrons are then drawn to the first of several

The emitted

metal dynodes, each maintained at a potential about 100 volts more positive than the preceding one, the last one being connected to the measuring
circuit.

On

reaching the

first

dynode, each electron from the photocathode

knocks two electrons, say, out of the metal surface, as indicated in the
drawing. These are drawn to the second dynode where each knocks out
two more electrons and so on. Actually, the gain at each dynode may
be 4 or 5 and there are usually at least 10 dynodes. If the gain per dynode
7
10 =
10
is 5 and there are 10 dynodes, then the multiplication factor is 5
Thus the absorption of one x-ray quantum in the crystal results in the
.

collection of a very large number of electrons at the final dynode, producing
a pulse about as large as a Geiger pulse, i.e., of the order of volts. Furthermore, the whole process requires less than a microsecond, so that a scintil5
lation counter can operate at rates as high as 10 counts per second without

As

in the proportional counter, the pulses

produced

in a scintillation

counter have sizes proportional to the energy of the quanta absorbed.
photocathode

dynodes

vacuum
\

crystal

FIG. 7-18.

photoniultiplicr tube

Scintillation counter (schematic).

Electrical connections not shown.

