SCALER8

7-8]

205

radiation from nearby radioactive material; it may be rather high, if a
counter is used, because of the dark current of this counter.)

scintillation

Suppose a measurement is required of the diffraction background, always
rather low, in the presence of a fairly large unavoidable background. In
these circumstances, Eq. (7-6) does not apply. Let TV be the number of
pulses counted in a given time with the x-ray tube on, and Nb the number
counted in the same time with the tube

off.

Then Nb counts

are due to

the unavoidable background and (N
Nb) to the diffraction background
the
and
relative
Nb) is
being measured,
probable error in (N

E *-x* =

07V'N + N b
^7T~ P ercent
(N - N b

-~7^

(7-7)

-

)

Comparison of Eqs. (7-0) and (7-7) shows that longer counts must be
the unavoidable background is of comparable intensity to
the radiation being measured than when the unavoidable background is
completely negligible by comparison, if the same accuracy is to be obtained
in both measurements.

made when

As indicated

in Sec. 7-2, the integrated intensity of

a diffraction line

may be measured with a sealer by determining the average counting rate
at several angular positions of the counter. The line profile, the curve of
vs. 26, is then plotted on graph paper, and the area under the
and above the continuous background, is measured with a planimeter.
To obtain the same relative accuracy of both the line profile and the adjacent background, all measurements should be made by counting a fixed
number of pulses. Three other methods of measuring integrated intensities
have been used, all of which utilize the integrating properties of the scaling
circuit to replace the curve plotting and planimeter measurement:
(1) The line is scanned from one side to the other at a constant angular
rate, the sealer being started at the beginning of the scan and stopped at
its end.
The total number of counts registered by the sealer, minus the
number of counts due to the background, is then proportional to the integrated intensity of the line. All lines on the pattern must be measured
with the same receiving slit and the same scanning rate. The background
adjacent to, and on either side of, the line may be measured by the same
procedure, i.e., by scanning at the same rate over the same angular range,
or by counting at a fixed position for the same time required to scan the

intensity

curve,

line.

(2) The counter is moved stepwise across the line and maintained in
each position for the same length of time, the sealer being operated continuously except when changing counter positions. The total count accu-

mulated by the

sealer,

minus the background

tional to the integrated intensity.

A

correction,

wide receiving

is

slit is

again proporand the

used,

