DIFFRACTOMETER MEASUREMENTS

206

[CHAP. 7

angular interval between counter positions is so chosen that the overlap
between adjacent settings of the slit is negligibly small and constant and
never coincides with the maximum intensity of the line being measured.
the line being measured.
(3) A receiving slit is used which is wider than
centered on the line and a count made for a given time. The
background is measured by counting at a position adjacent to the line

The

slit is

with the same

Because

all

same length of time.
these methods involve counting
slit

for the

for a fixed time, the back-

measured
ground and
with less accuracy than the high-intensity portions. The counting time
should be chosen so that the low intensities are measured to the accuracy
follow that the
required by the particular problem involved; it will then
but that
with
measured
are
intensities
accuracy,
unnecessarily
high
high
low-intensity portions of the diffraction line are

unavoidable in fixed-time methods such as these.
The integrating ability of a sealer is also put to use in x-ray tube moniIn Sec. 7-2 it was mentioned that the incident-beam intensity had
tors.
is

to be maintained absolutely constant in a diffractometer and that this
constancy required tube current and voltage stabilizers. These stabilizing

an extra counter and sealer are available to
"watch," or monitor, the tube output. The monitor counter may be positioned to receive the direct beam, suitably filtered to reduce its intensity,
from another window of the x-ray tube, or an auxiliary crystal may be set
to diffract a portion of the beam used in the diffractometer into the monitor
circuits are not

needed

if

In either case, every intensity measurement with the diffrac-

counter.

starting the diffractometer sealer and monitor sealer
and
stopping both when the monitor sealer has registered
simultaneously
a constant number of counts N. In this way, every intensity measurement
is made in terms of the same amount of energy incident on the specimen,
and variations in tube output have no effect.

tometer

is

made by

7-9 Ratemeters. The counting-rate meter, as its name implies, is a
device which indicates the average counting rate directly without requiring,

as in the sealer-timer combination, separate

measurements

of the

a circuit which, in effect,

of counts and the time. It does this by
smooths out the succession of randomly spaced pulses from the counter
into a steady current, whose magnitude is proportional to the average

number

rate of pulse production in the counter.

The heart of a ratemeter circuit is a series arrangement of a capacitor
and resistor. To understand the action of a ratemeter, we must review
some of the properties of such a circuit, notably the way in which the
current and voltage vary with time. Consider the circuit shown in Fig.
7-20(a), in which the switch S can be used either to connect a to c and thus
apply a voltage to the capacitor, or to connect b to c and thus short-circuit

