DIFFRACTOMETER MEASUREMENTS

208

[CHAP. 7

through the resistor until, at equilibrium, the rate of addition of charge is
The rate of charge leakage is simply
just balanced by the rate of leakage.
the current through the microammeter M, which therefore indicates the
rate of pulse production in the counter and, in turn, the x-ray intensity.
The circuit usually contains, in addition to the indicating meter, a chart
recorder which produces a continuous record of the intensity.

Even when the x-ray

intensity is constant (constant average counting
the
counter pulses is random in time, which means
rate), the spacing of
that the counting rate actually varies with time over short periods. The
ratemeter responds to these statistical fluctuations in the counting rate,

response speed is greater the smaller the time constant. This follows from the discussion of the capacitor-resistor circuit: any change in
the pulse rate causes a change in the current through the circuit, but the

and

its

change always lags behind the former; the amount of lag is less for a
small time constant than for a large one. Random fluctuations in the
counting rate are therefore more evident with a small time constant, belatter

cause the current in the circuit then follows the changes in counting rate
more closely. This feature is illustrated in Fig. 7-22, which shows the
automatically recorded output of a ratemeter when the counter is receiving

a constant-intensity x-ray beam. The large fluctuations at the left have
been reduced in magnitude by successive increases in the time constant,
effected by changing the value of C2
Evidently, a single reading of the
a ratemeter
position of the indicating meter needle or the recorder pen of
.

be seriously in error, and more so at low time constants than at high.
we saw that the error in a counting-rate measurement decreased as the number of counts increased. Now it may be shown that a

may

In Sec. 7-8

counted for a time 2R 2 C2 in the sense that the
any single reading is equivalent to a count made with a sealer
for a time 2R 2 C 2
Therefore, the relative probable error in any single
ratemeter reading is given by the counterpart of Eq. (7-G), namely by
ratemeter acts as

if it

,

accuracy of

.

C7

E=
where n

is

;

\/2nR 2 C2

the average counting rate.

probable error

is less

percent,

(7-8)

This equation also shows that the
than for low, when the time

for high counting rates

constant remains the same. This is illustrated graphically in Fig. 7-23,
which shows how the recorded fluctuations in the counting rate decrease
as the rate itself

The most

is

increased.

is its ability to follow changes in
which
the sealer is totally unable to
function
a
the average counting rate,
perform, since a change in the average counting rate occurring during the

useful feature of a ratemeter

being made with a sealer will go entirely undetected. It is
this feature of a ratemeter which is so useful in diffractometry. A diffrac-

time a count

is

