DIFFRACTOMETBR MEASUREMENTS

210

[CHAP. 7

mind, and the time constant should be chosen large enough to smooth out
most of the statistical fluctuations and yet small enough to give a reasonably short response time.
Most commercial ratemeters have several scales available to cover various ranges of x-ray intensity (100, 1000, and 10,000 cps for full-scale
deflection of the recorder pen, for example). Smaller time constants are

used with the higher scales, just as short counting times are used with a
sealer when the counting rate is high. In some instruments, the time constant appropriate to each scale is fixed by the manufacturer, and in others
the operator can select any one of several time constants, ranging from
about 0.5 to 15 sec, by switches which insert the proper capacitance in the
circuit. The proper time constant to use is, of course, not unrelated to the
scanning speed, for a fast scan demands a fast response from the ratemeter

and therefore a short time constant.

A

time constant which

is

too large

for the scanning speed used will slightly shift the peaks of diffraction lines
in the direction of the scan and lower their maximum intensity and, be-

excessive smoothing action, may actually obliterate weak difand cause them to go unnoticed. In choosing a time constant,
therefore better to err on the short side. A good rule to follow is to

cause of

its

fraction lines
it is

the time constant less than half the time width of the receiving slit,
where the time width is defined as the time required for the slit to travel

make

own width. For example,
2/min, then the time width

its

if

a 0.2

of the

slit is
slit is

used at a scanning speed of

(0.2/2) (60)

=

6 sec, and the

time constant should therefore be less than 3 sec. The same rule can be
used to find the proper slit width for a given scanning speed when the time
constant is fixed.
The relation between the x-ray intensity, i.e., the average counting rate,

and the deflection of the indicating meter needle or recorder pen is linear
for some ratemeters and logarithmic for others. The exact relation may
be found by a calibration procedure similar to that used for the Geiger
counter and sealer, as outlined in Sec. 7-8. A number of identical metal
foils are placed in a strong diffracted beam entering the counter and these
are withdrawn one by one, with the counter in a fixed position. After
each withdrawal, the counting rate is measured accurately with a sealer,
for a time at least equal to the scaling time,
the recording chart speed being selected to give a trace of reasonable

and the ratemeter operated

way

as to

possible.

way.)

average straight line is then drawn through each trace, in such
the positive and negative fluctuations as nearly equal as
(Figure 7-23 shows a portion of a calibration run made in this

An

length.

a

make

Finally, the distances of these straight lines

from the chart zero are

plotted against the corresponding average counting rates as determined by
the sealer, and the calibration curve so obtained is used as a basis for* future
intensity

measurements with the ratemeter-recorder combination.

