CHAPTER

8

ORIENTATION OF SINGLE CRYSTALS
8-1 Introduction.

Much

of our

understanding of the properties of poly-

crystalline materials has been gained

since such studies permit

by studies of isolated single crystals,
measurement of the properties of the individual

building blocks in the composite mass. Because single crystals are usually
anisotropic, research of this kind always requires accurate knowledge of

the orientation of the single crystal test specimen in order that measurements may be made along known crystallographic directions or planes.
By varying the crystal orientation, we can obtain data on the property

measured

(e.g.,

yield strength, electrical resistivity, corrosion rate) as a

function of crystal orientation.
In this chapter the three main x-ray methods of determining crystal
orientation will be described: the back-reflection Laue method, the trans-

mission Laue method, and the diffractometer method.
It is also convenient to treat here the question of crystal deformation and the measure-

ment

of this

deformation by x-ray methods.

the relative

two parts

of

Finally, the subject of rela-

discussed, and methods are given for determining
orientation of two naturally associated crystals, such as the
a twin or a precipitated crystal and its parent phase.

tive crystal orientation

is

8-2 The back-reflection Laue method.

As mentioned

in Sec. 3-6,

the

Laue pattern of a single crystal consists of a set of diffraction spots on the
film and the positions of these spots depend on the orientation of the crysThis is true of either Laue method, transmission or back-reflection,
tal.
so either can be used to determine crystal orientation. However, the backreflection method is the more widely used of the two because it requires no
special preparation of the specimen, which may be of any thickness,
whereas the transmission method requires relatively thin specimens of low

absorption.

In either case, since the orientation of the specimen is to be determined
of the Laue spots on the film, it is necessary to orient
The single
the specimen relative to the film in some known manner.

from the location

crystal specimens encountered in metallurgical work are usually in the
of wire, rod, sheet, or plate, but crystals of irregular shape must occa-

form

Wire or rod specimens are best mounted with
sionally be dealt with.
their axis parallel to one edge of the square or rectangular film; a fiducial
mark on the specimen surface, for example on the side nearest the film,
then

fixes

the orientation of the specimen completely.
215

It is

convenient to

