TRANSMISSION LAUE METHOD

8-3]

229

The distance 08 is noted and the corresponding pole plotted as
shown, on the other side of center and at the corresponding distance PQ. This
procedure is repeated for each important diffraction spot, after which the projection is transferred to a Wulff net and the poles indexed by either of the methods
diffraction spot.

Note that this procedure gives a projection of the crystal
side opposite the x-ray source, whereas the Oreninger chart gives a projection of the crystal as seen from the x-ray source.
crystal orientation can,
previously described.

from the

A

from one side as the other, and either projection can be made to coincide with the other by a 180 rotation of the projection
about its EW-axis. Although simple to use and construct, the stereographic ruler
is not as accurate as the Greninger chart in the solution of back-reflection patterns.
of course, be described just as well

The methods

of determining and describing crystal orientation have
here
been presented
exclusively in terms of cubic crystals, because these
are the simplest kind to consider and the most frequently encountered.

These methods are quite general, however, and can be applied to a crystal
of any system as long as its interplariar angles are known.
8-3 Transmission Laue method.

Given a specimen

of sufficiently

low

absorption, a transmission Laue pattern can be obtained and used, in much
the same way as a back-reflection Laue pattern, to reveal the orientation
of the crystal.

In either Laue method, the diffraction spots on the film, due to the
planes of a single zone in the crystal, always lie on a curve which is some
kind of conic section. When the film is in the transmission position, this

curve is a complete ellipse for sufficiently small values of
tween the zone axis and the transmitted beam (Fig. 8-12).
larger values of
film.

When

FIG. 8-12.

</>,

</>,

the angle be-

For somewhat

the ellipse is incomplete because of the finite size of the
exceeds 45, a
the curve becomes a parabola, when

= 45,

</>

Intersection of a conical array of diffracted beams with a film placed
C = crystal, F = film, Z.A. = zone axis.

in the transmission position.

