DIFFEACTOMETER METHOD

8-4]

N

239

f

which is initially at the center of the projection but
which moves y degrees along a radius when the crystal is rotated y degrees
about A A'.
What we are trying to do, essentially, is to make
coincide with a
111 pole and so disclose the location of the latter on the projection. The
search may be made by varying y continuously for fixed values of 4 or 5
sented by the pole

,

N

{

f

J

apart; the projection is then covered point by point along a series of radii.
It is enough to examine one quadrant in this way since there will always

be at least one {111} pole in any one quadrant. Once one pole has been
located, the search for the second is aided by the knowledge that it must
be 70.5 from the first. Although two {111) poles are enough to fix the
orientation of the crystal, a third should be located as a check.
Parenthetically, it should be noted that the positioning of the crystal
surface and the axis A A' at equal angles to the incident and diffracted

beams

is done only for convenience in plotting the stereographic projecThere is no question of focusing when monochromatic radiation is
reflected from an undeformed single crystal, and the ideal incident beam

tion.

for the determination of crystal orientation

is

a parallel beam, not a di-

vergent one.

In the hands of an experienced operator, the diffractometer method is
faster than either Laue method.
Furthermore, it can yield results of
greater accuracy if narrow slits are used to reduce the divergence of the
incident beam, although the use of extremely narrow slits will make it
difficult to locate the reflecting positions of the crystal. On the other

more

hand, the diffractometer method furnishes no permanent record of the
orientation determination, whereas Laue patterns may be filed away for

But what is more important, the diffractometer method
does not readily disclose the state of perfection of the crystal, whereas a
Laue pattern yields this kind of information at a glance, as we will see in

future reference.

and in many investigations the metallurgist is just as much interested in the relative perfection of a single crystal as he is in its orientation.
All things considered, the Laue methods are preferable when only occa-

Sec. 8-6,

sional orientation determinations are required, or when there is any doubt
as to the perfection of the crystal. When the orientations of large numbers of crystals have to be determined in a routine manner, the diffrac-

In fact, this method was developed largely
is superior.
an application during World War II, when the orientation of
These crystals
large numbers of quartz crystals had to be determined.
were used in radio transmitters to control, through their natural frequency
of vibration, the frequency of the transmitted signal.
For this purpose
with
to
faces
wafers
had
be
cut
accurately parallel to certain crysquartz
and
the
was used to determine the
diffractometer
tallographic planes,

tometer method
for just such

orientations of these planes in the crystal.

