ORIENTATION OF SINGLE CRYSTALS

242

turbed the position of the third axis (the vertical WS'-axis).

[CHAP. 8

Whether or

not the stereographic orientations are performed in the correct order makes
a great difference in the rotation angles found, but once the right angles
are determined by the correct stereographic procedure, the actual physical
rotations on the goniometer may be performed in any sequence.

The back-reflection Laue pattern of an aluminum crystal rotated into
the orientation described above is shown in Fig. 8-24. Note that the
arrangement of spots has 2-fold rotational symmetry about the primary
beam, corresponding to the 2-fold rotational symmetry of cubic crystals
about their (110) axes. (Conversely, the observed symmetry of the Laue
pattern of a crystal of unknown structure is an indication of the kind of
symmetry possessed by that crystal. Thus the Laue method can be used
as an aid in the determination of crystal structure.)
There is another method of setting a crystal in a standard orientation,
which does not require either photographic registration of the diffraction

pattern or stereographic manipulation of the data. It depends on the fact
that the diffracted beams formed in the transmission Laue method are so
intense, for a crystal of the proper thickness, that the spots they

fluorescent screen are visible in a dark room.

form on a

The observer merely

rotates

the crystal about the various arcs of the goniometer until the pattern corresponding to the required orientation appears on the screen. Obviously,
he must be able to recognize this pattern when it appears, but a little

study of a few Laue photographs

made

of crystals in standard orientations

necessity for working in a darkened room
use of a light-tight viewing box, if the job of crystal

will

enable him to do

may

be avoided by

this.

The

setting occurs sufficiently often to justify its construction. This box encloses the fluorescent screen which the observer views through a binocular

eyepiece set in the wall of the box, either directly along the direction of
the transmitted beam, or indirectly in a direction at right angles by means
of a mirror or a right-angle prism. For x-ray protection, the optical system

should include lead glass, and the observer's hands should be shielded
during manipulation of the crystal.

8-6 The effect of plastic deformation. Nowhere have x-ray methods
The way in
fruitful than in the study of plastic deformation.
which a single crystal deforms plastically is markedly anisotropic, and

been more
almost

all of

our knowledge of this phenomenon has been gained by x-ray

diffraction examination of crystals at various stages during plastic defor-

mation.

At the outset we can

distinguish between

two kinds

of deforma-

tion, that of the crystal lattice itself and that of the crystal as a whole.
This distinction is worth while because crystal deformation, defined as a
change in the shape of the crystal due to lattice rotation, can occur with

or without lattice deformation, defined as the bending and/or twisting of

