ORIENTATION OP SINGLE CRYSTALS

246

(a)

FIG. 8-28.
film distance 3

Transmission

(b)

Back

[CHAP. 8

reflection

of a deformed aluminum crystal.
cm, tungsten radiation, 30 kv.

Laue photographs

Specimen-to-

stereographically; each Laue streak is plotted as an arc representing the
range of orientation of the corresponding lattice plane, and a rotation axis
which will account for the directions of these arcs on the projection is

found.

The angular

lengths of the arcs are a measure of the

amount

of

bending which has occurred. In measuring the amount of bending by
this method, it must be remembered that the wavelengths present in the
There is no radiation of
incident beam do not cover an infinite range.
than
the
shorter
limit, and on the longshort-wavelength
wavelength

wavelength side the intensity decreases continuously as the wavelength
This means that, for a given degree of lattice bending, some
increases.Laue streaks may not be as long as they might be if a full range of wavelengths were available. The amount of bending estimated from the lengths
of these streaks would therefore be smaller than that actually present.
Transmission and back-reflection Laue patterns made from the same

deformed region usually differ markedly in appearance. The photographs
in Fig. 8-28 were made, under identical conditions, of the same region of a
deformed aluminum crystal having the same orientation relative to the
incident beam for each photograph.
Both show elongated spots, which
are evidence of lattice bending, but the spots are elongated primarily in a
radial direction on the transmission pattern while on the back-reflection
pattern they tend to follow zone lines. The term asterism (from the Greek
aster = star) was used initially to describe the starlike appearance of a
transmission pattern such as Fig. 8-28 (a), but it is now used to describe any
form of streaking, radial or nonradial, on either kind of Laue photograph.
The striking difference between these two photographs is best understood by considering a very general case. Suppose a crystal is so deformed

