ORIENTATION OF SINGLE CRYSTALS

256

[CHAP. 8

twins in copper have {111} composition planes to determine the orientation of the grain shown in Fig. 8-38 (a), where twin bands have formed on

The trace normals are
{111} planes of the parent grain.
and on this is placed a standard (001) projection
containing only (111) poles. If the standard is rotated about its center
to the position shown, then it is possible by a further rotation about the

two

different

plotted in Fig. 8-38(b),

AB

to bring the {111} poles of the standard, shown by open symbols,
to positions lying on trace normals, shown by solid symbols. The solid
symbols therefore show an orientation of the crystal which will account
axis

Unfortunately, it is not the only one the orientation found by reflecting the one shown in the plane of projection is also a
possible solution. A choice between these two possibilities can be made
for the observed traces.

:

only by sectioning the crystal so as to expose trace directions in a second
surface.

8-8 Relative orientation of precipitate and matrix. When a supersaturated solid solution precipitates a second phase, the latter frequently
takes the form of thin plates which lie parallel to certain planes of low
indices in the matrix.

The matrix plane on which

the precipitate plate
indices always refer to the lattice of the

the habit plane and
is also a definite orientation relationship between the lattice
of the precipitate and that of the matrix. Both of these effects result from

lies is called

matrix.

its

There

a tendency of the atomic arrangement in the precipitate to conform as
closely as possible to the atomic arrangement in the matrix at the interface

between the two.

FCC

For example, precipitation of an
such a

HCP

phase from an

that the basal (0001) plane
of the precipitate is parallel to a (111) plane of the matrix, since on both
of these planes the atoms have a
solid solution often occurs in

way

hexagonal arrangement.
Relations of this kind are illustrated

on an atomic scale in Fig. 8-39.

In

this hypothetical case the habit plane
is (HO) and the lattice relationship is

such that the plane (010) of the precipitate is parallel to the plane (110)
of the matrix; the direction [100] in
the former plane

is

parallel to the

direction [110] in the latter, or, in the

usual shorthand notation,

MATRIX
where the subscripts p and m refer to
precipitate and matrix, respectively.

UNIT CELL
FIG. 8-39.
tionship.

PRECIPITATE
UNIT CELL
Matrix-precipitate rela-

