CRYSTAL PERFECTION

9-4]

263

a solid aggregate.! That is correct. Attempts have been made to apply Eq. (3-13) to the broadened diffraction
lines from very fine-grained metal specimens and so determine the size of
the individual grains. Such determinations are never very reliable, however, because the individual grains of such a material are often nonuni-

size of the individual crystals in

formly strained, and this condition, as we shall see in the next section,
can also broaden the diffraction lines; an uncertainty therefore exists as
to the exact cause of the observed broadening. On the other hand, the
individual crystals which make up a loose powder of fine particle size can

often be assumed to be strain-free, provided the material involved is a
brittle (nonplastic) one, and all the observed broadening can confidently
be ascribed to the particle-size effect. (But note that loose, unannealed

metal powders, produced by filing, grinding, ball milling, etc., almost
always contain nonuniform strain.) The. chief applications of the line-

broadening method have been in the measurement of the particle
such materials as carbon blacks, catalysts, and industrial dusts.

size of

method of measuring the size of small particles deserves
JAnother x-ray
some mention, although a complete description is beyond the scope of this
book. This is the method of small-angle scattering. It is a form of diffuse
scattering very near the undeviated transmitted beam, i.e., at angles 20
up to roughly 2 or 3. From the observed variation of
ranging from

the scattered intensity vs. angle 20, the size, and to some extent the shape,
of small particles can be determined, whether they are amorphous or crystalline.

Small-angle scattering has also been used to study precipitation

effects in metallic solid solutions.

|

CRYSTAL PERFECTION
Of the many kinds of crystal imperfection, the
is nonuniform strain because it is so characstate
of
metals and alloys. When a polycrystalteristic of the cold-worked
line piece of metal is plastically deformed, for example by rolling, slip
occurs in each grain and the grain changes its shape, becoming flattened
and elongated in the direction of rolling. The change in shape of any one
9-4 Crystal perfection.

one we are concerned with here

is determined not only by the forces applied to the piece as a whole,
but also by the fact that each grain retains contact on its boundary surfaces with all its neighbors. Because of this interaction between grains,

grain

a single grain in a polycrystalline mass is not free to deform in the same
way as an isolated single crystal would, if subjected to the same deformation by rolling. As a result of this restraint by its neighbors, a plastically

deformed grain in a solid aggregate usually has regions of its lattice left
in an elastically bent or twisted condition or, more rarely, in a state of
uniform tension or compression. The metal is then said to contain residual

