DEPTH OF X-RAY PENETRATION

9-5|

269

FIG 9-5.
Back-reflection pinhole
patterns of coarse-grained lecrystallized copper.
Vnfiltered coppei radiation

(a)

belt sandei
in

fiom

,

from surface ground on a
(h) after removal of 0.003

this suiface

by etching.

made at 300 and 450C which would immediately .suggest that the specimen annealed at 450 O had the coarser grain size, hut this fact is quite
evident in the pinhole patterns shown in Figs. 9-3 (c) and (d).
It must always he remembered that a hack-reflection photograph

is

representative of only a thin surface layer of the specimen. For example,
Fig. 9-5 (a) was obtained from a piece of copper and exhibits unresolved

The unexperienced observer might
doublets in the high-angle region.
What the x-ray
conclude that this material was highly cold worked.
"sees" is cold worked, but it sees only to a limited depth. Actually, the
bulk of this specimen is in the annealed condition, but the surface from
which the x-ray pattern was made had had 0.002 in. removed by grinding
on a belt sander after annealing. This treatment cold worked the surface
to a considerable depth. By successive etching treatments and diffraction
patterns made after each etch, the change in structure of the cold-worked
Not
layer could be followed as a function of depth below the surface.
until a total of 0.003 in.

come

had been removed did the

diffraction pattern be-

characteristic of the bulk of the material; see Fig. 9-5 (b),

sf>otty lines indicate

where the

a coarse-grained, recrystallized structure.

9-6 Depth of x-ray penetration. Observations of this kind suggest that
might be well to consider in some detail the general problem of x-ray
Most metallurgical specimens strongly absorb x-rays, and
penetration.

it

the intensity of the incident beam is reduced almost to zero in a very short
The diffracted beams therefore originate
distance below the surface.
chiefly in a thin surface layer

to a transmission technique,*
*

Not even

in transmission

whenever a
is

used,

i.e.,

reflection technique, as

whenever a

methods, however,

is

opposed

diffraction pattern

the information on a diffrac-

tion pattern truly representative of the entire cross section of the specimen. Calculations such as those given in this section show that a greater proportion of the
total diffracted energy originates in a layer of given thickness on the back side of

the specimen (the side from which the transmitted beam leaves) than in a layer
of equal thickness on the front side. If the specimen is highly absorbing, a transmission method can be just as non-representative of the entire specimen as a backreflection method, in that most of the diffracted energy will originate in a thin
surface layer.* See Prob. 9-5.

