THE STRUCTURE OF POLYCRYSTALLINE AGGREGATES

274

[CHAP. 9

Since single crystals of iron are more easily magof the applied field.
netized in the [100] direction than in any other, the rolling and annealing
treatments given the steel sheet are deliberately chosen to produce a high
as possible have
degree of preferred orientation, in which as many grains
in this case
the
in
direction
a
to
directions
sheet,
their [100]
single
parallel

the rolling direction.
It should be noted that preferred orientation is solely a crystallographic
condition and has nothing to do with grain shape as disclosed by the microscope. Therefore, the presence or absence of preferred orientation cannot
be disclosed by microscopic examination. It is true that grain -shape is

by the same forces which produce preferred orientation; thus
become flattened by rolling, and rolling is usually accompanied by

affected

grains

preferred orientation, but a flattened shape is not in itself direct evidence
of preferred orientation.
Only x-ray diffraction can give such evidence.
is most apparent in recrystallized metals, which may have an
microstructure
and, at the same time, a high degree of preferred
equiaxed

This fact

orientation.

we have already noted that a pinhole
a
polycrystalline specimen with characteristic radiaphotograph made of
We have more or less tacitly
tion consists of concentric Debye rings.
At various

places in this book,

assumed that these rings are always continuous and of constant intensity
around their circumference, but actually such rings are not formed unless
the individual crystals in the specimen have completely random orientations.*

If the

specimen exhibits preferred orientation, the Debye rings

are of nonuniform intensity around their circumference
orientation is slight), or actually discontinuous (if there

(if

the preferred

a high degree
of preferred orientation). In the latter case, certain portions of the Debye
ring are missing because the orientations which would reflect to those
parts of the ring are simply not present in the specimen. Nonuniform

Debye

is

rings can therefore be taken as conclusive evidence for preferred

orientation,

and by analyzing the nonuniformity we can determine the

kind and degree of preferred orientation present.
Preferred orientation

is

best described

by means

of a pole figure.

This

is a stereographic projection which shows the variation in pole density
with pole orientation for a selected set of crystal planes. This method of
describing textures was first used by the German metallurgist Wever in

and

its meaning can best be illustrated by the following simple exSuppose we have a very coarse-grained sheet of a cubic metal
containing only 10 grains, and that we determine the orientation of each
of these 10 grains by one of the Laue methods. We decide to represent

1924,

ample.

the orientations of
1

all of

these grains together

by

plotting the positions of

See the next section for one exception to this statement.

