THE STRUCTURE OF POLYCRYSTALLINE AGGREGATES

276

[CHAP. 9

Naturally, when the grain size is small, as it normally is, separate determination of the orientations of a representative number of grains is out of
the question, so x-ray methods are used in which the diffraction effects
from thousands of grains are automatically averaged. The (hkl) pole
figure of a fine-grained material is constructed by analyzing the distribution of intensity around the circumference of the corresponding hkl Debye

There are two methods

ring.

though affording

made

obsolete

of doing this, the photographic

The photographic method

fractometer method.

sufficient

accuracy for

many

is

and the

dif-

qualitative and, al-

purposes,

it is

rapidly being

by the more accurate diffractometer method. Both methods

are described in the following sections.
Although only a pole figure can provide a complete description of preferred orientation, some information can be obtained simply by a com-

parison of calculated diffraction line intensities with those observed with a
Debye-Scherrer camera or a diffractometer. As stated in Sec. 4-12, relative line intensities are given accurately by Eq. (4-12) only when the
crystals of the specimen

any

have completely random orientations. Therefore
between observed and calculated intensities is
preferred orientation in the specimen, and, from

radical disagreement

immediate evidence

of

the nature of the disagreement, certain limited conclusions can usually be
drawn concerning the nature of the texture. For example, if a sheet
specimen is examined in the diffractometer in the usual way (the specimen

making equal angles with the incident and

diffracted beams), then the
only grains which can contribute to the hkl reflection are those whose
If the texture is such that
(hkl) planes are parallel to the sheet surface.

there are very few such grains, the intensity of the hkl reflection will be
abnormally low. Or a given reflection may be of abnormally high intensity, which would indicate that the corresponding planes were preferenor nearly parallel to the sheet surface.
As an
the
200
diffractometer
reflection
from
a
illustration,
specimen having the
cube texture is abnormally high, and from this fact alone it is possible to
tially oriented parallel

conclude that there
the sheet surface.
there

is

a preferred orientation of (100) planes parallel to
However, no conclusion is possible as to whether or not
is

a preferred direction in the (100) plane parallel to some reference
on the sheet surface. Such information can be obtained only by

direction

making a pole

figure.

9-7 The texture of wire and rod (photographic method). As mentioned
cold-drawn wire normally has a texture in which a

in the previous section,

certain crystallographic direction [uvw] in most of the grains
or nearly parallel, to the wire axis. Since a similar texture

natural and

wire

is

artificial fibers, it is called

called the fiber axis.

is
is

parallel,

found in

a fiber texture and the axis of the

Materials having a fiber texture have rota-

