280

THE STRUCTURE OF POLYCRYSTALLINE AGGREGATES

[CHAP. 9

by measuring the angular range of
each arc and calculating the corresponding angular range of p. A
(111) pole figure of the wire would then resemble Fig. 9-9 (a) except that
the two curved lines would be replaced by two curved bands, each equal
wish, this can be taken into account

a

in

for

width to the calculated range

of p for the (111) poles.

In materials having
a fiber texture, the individual grains have a common crystallographic
direction parallel to the fiber axis but they can have any rotational position about that axis. It follows that the diffraction pattern of such mate-

One other aspect

of fiber textures should be noted.

have continuous Debye rings if the incident x-ray beam is parallel
to the fiber axis. However, the relative intensities of these rings will not
be the same as those calculated for a specimen containing randomly oriented
rials will

grains.

Therefore, continuous

Debye

rings are not, in themselves, evi-

dence for a lack of preferred orientation.

9-8 The texture of sheet (photographic method).

The

texture of rolled

sheet, either as rolled or after recrystallization, differs from that of

drawn

wire in having less symmetry. There is no longer a common crystallographic direction about which the grains can have any rotational position.
Sheet textures can therefore be described adequately only by means of a
pole figure, since only this gives a complete
crystal orientation.

map

of the distribution of

The photographic method of determining the pole figure of
method just described for determining wire

similar to the

sheet

is

quite

textures.

A

transmission pinhole camera is used, together with general radiation containing a characteristic component. The sheet specimen, reduced in thickness by etching to a few thousandths of an inch, is initially mounted per-

pendicular to the incident beam with the rolling direction vertical. The
resulting photograph resembles tha,t of a drawn wire: it contains Debye

nonuniform intensity and the pattern is symmetrical about a
vertical line through the center of the film. However, if the sheet is now
rotated by, say, 10 about the rolling direction and another photograph
made, the resulting pattern .will differ from the first, because the texture
of sheet does not have rotational symmetry about the rolling direction.
This new pattern will not be symmetrical about a vertical line, and the
regions of high intensity on the Debye rings will not have the same azimuthal positions as they had in the first photograph. Figure 9-11 illustrates this effect for cold-rolled aluminum.
To determine the complete
rings of

texture of sheet, it is therefore necessary to measure the distribution of
orientations about the rolling direction by making several photographs
with the sheet normal at various angles to the incident beam.

ft

Figure 9-12 shows the experimental arrangement and defines the angle
between the sheet normal and the incident beam. The intensity of the

