DAENERYS
Daenerys Targaryen wed Khal Drogo with fear and barbaric splendor in a field beyond
the walls of Pentos, for the Dothraki believed that all things of importance in a man’s life must
be done beneath the open sky.
Drogo had called his khalasar to attend him and they had come, forty thousand Dothraki
warriors and uncounted numbers of women, children, and slaves. Outside the city walls they
camped with their vast herds, raising palaces of woven grass, eating everything in sight, and
making the good folk of Pentos more anxious with every passing day.
“My fellow magisters; have doubled the size of the city guard,” Illyrio told them over platters
of honey duck and orange snap peppers one night at the manse that had been Drogo’s. The khal
had joined his khalasar, his estate given over to Daenerys and her brother until the wedding.
“Best we get Princess Daenerys wedded quickly before they hand half the wealth of Pentos
away to sellswords and bravos,” Ser Jorah Mormont jested. The exile had offered her brother his
sword the night Dany had been sold to Khal Drogo; Viserys had accepted eagerly. Mormont had
been their constant companion ever since.
Magister Illyrio laughed lightly through his forked beard, but Viserys did not so much as smile.
“He can have her tomorrow, if he likes,” her brother said. He glanced over at Dany, and she
lowered her eyes. “So long as he pays the price.”
Illyrio waved a languid hand in the air, rings glittering on his fat fingers. “I have told you, all is
settled. Trust me. The khal has promised you a crown, and you shall have it.”
“Yes, but when?”
“When the khal chooses,” Illyrio said. “He will have the girl first, and after they are wed he
must make his procession across the plains and present her to the dosh khaleen at Vaes Dolthrak.
After that, perhaps. If the omens favor war.”
Viserys seethed with impatience. “I piss on Dothraki omens. The Usurper sits on my father’s
throne. How long must I wait?”
Illyrio gave a massive shrug. “You have waited most of your life, great king. What is another
few months, another few years?”
Ser Jorah, who had traveled as far east as Vaes Dothrak, nodded in agreement. “I counsel you to
be patient, Your Grace. The Dothraki are true to their word, but they do things in their own time.
A lesser man may beg a favor from the khal, but must never presume to berate him.”
Viserys bristled. “Guard your tongue, Mormont, or I’ll have it out. I am no lesser man, I am the
rightful Lord of the Seven Kingdoms. The dragon does not beg.”
Ser Jorah lowered his eyes respectfully. Illyrio smiled enigmatically and tore a wing from the
duck. Honey and grease ran over his fingers and dripped down into his beard as he nibbled at the
tender meat. There are no more dragons, Dany thought, staring at her brother, though she did not
dare say it aloud.
Yet that night she dreamt of one. Viserys was hitting her, hurting her. She was naked, clumsy
with fear. She ran from him, but her body seemed thick and ungainly. He struck her again. She

