“Illyrio and I selected them personally for you. Irri will teach you riding, Jhiqui the Dothraki
tongue, and Doreah will instruct you in the womanly arts of love.” He smiled thinly. “She’s very
good, Illyrio and I can both swear to that.”
Ser Jorah Mormont apologized for his gift. “It is a small thing, my princess, but all a poor exile
could afford,” he said as he laid a small stack of old books before her. They were histories and
songs of the Seven Kingdoms, she saw, written in the Common Tongue. She thanked him with
all her heart.
Magister Illyrio murmured a command, and four burly slaves hurried forward, bearing between
them a great cedar chest bound in bronze. When she opened it, she found piles of the finest
velvets and damasks the Free Cities could produce... and resting on top, nestled in the soft cloth,
three huge eggs. Dany gasped. They were the most beautiful things she had ever seen, each
different than the others, patterned in such rich colors that at first she thought they were crusted
with jewels, and so large it took both of her hands to hold one. She lifted it delicately, expecting
that it would be made of some fine porcelain or delicate enamel, or even blown glass, but it was
much heavier than that, as if it were all of solid stone. The surface of the shell was covered with
tiny scales, and as she turned the egg between her fingers, they shimmered like polished metal in
the light of the setting sun. One egg was a deep green, with burnished bronze flecks that came
and went depending on how Dany turned it. Another was pale cream streaked with gold. The last
was black, as black as a midnight sea, yet alive with scarlet ripples and swirls. “What are they?”
she asked, her voice hushed and full of wonder.
“Dragon’s eggs, from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai,” said Magister Illyrio. “The eons have
turned them to stone, yet still they burn bright with beauty.”
“I shall treasure them always.” Dany had heard tales of such eggs, but she had never seen one,
nor thought to see one. It was a truly magnificent gift, though she knew that Illyrio could afford
to be lavish. He had collected a fortune in horses and slaves for his part in selling her to Khal
Drogo.
The khal’s bloodriders offered her the traditional three weapons, and splendid weapons they
were. Haggo gave her a great leather whip with a silver handle, Cohollo a magnificent arakh
chased in gold, and Qotho a double-curved dragonbone bow taller than she was. Magister Illyrio
and Ser Jorah had taught her the traditional refusals for these offerings. “This is a gift worthy of
a great warrior, O blood of my blood, and I am but a woman. Let my lord husband bear these in
my stead.” And so Khal Drogo too received his “bride gifts.”
Other gifts she was given in plenty by other Dothraki: slippers and jewels and silver rings for
her hair, medallion belts and painted vests and soft furs, sandsilks and jars of scent, needles and
feathers and tiny bottles of purple glass, and a gown made from the skin of a thousand mice. “A
handsome gift, Khaleesi,” Magister Illyrio said of the last, after he had told her what it was.
“Most lucky.” The gifts mounted up around her in great piles, more gifts than she could possibly
imagine, more gifts than she could want or use.
And last of all, Khal Drogo brought forth his own bride gift to her. An expectant hush rippled
out from the center of the camp as he left her side, growing until it had swallowed the whole

