khalasar. When he returned, the dense press of Dothraki gift-givers parted before him, and he led
the horse to her.
She was a young filly, spirited and splendid. Dany knew just enough about horses to know that
this was no ordinary animal. There was something about her that took the breath away. She was
grey as the winter sea, with a mane like silver smoke.
Hesitantly she reached out and stroked the horse’s neck, ran her fingers through the silver of her
mane. Khal Drogo said something in Dothraki and Magister Illyrio translated. “Silver for the
silver of your hair, the khal says.”
“She’s beautiful,” Dany murmured.
“She is the pride of the khalasar, “ Illyrio said. “Custom decrees that the khaleesi must ride a
mount worthy of her place by the side of the khal “
Drogo stepped forward and put his hands on her waist. He lifted her up as easily as if she were
a child and set her on the thin Dothraki saddle, so much smaller than the ones she was used to.
Dany sat there uncertain for a moment. No one had told her about this part. “What should I do?”
she asked Illyrio.
It was Ser Jorah Mormont who answered. “Take the reins and ride. You need not go far.”
Nervously Dany gathered the reins in her hands and slid her feet into the short stirrups. She was
only a fair rider; she had spent far more time traveling by ship and wagon and palanquin than by
horseback. Praying that she would not fall off and disgrace herself, she gave the filly the lightest
and most timid touch with her knees.
And for the first time in hours, she forgot to be afraid. Or perhaps it was for the first time ever.
The silver-grey filly moved with a smooth and silken gait, and the crowd parted for her, every
eye upon them. Dany found herself moving faster than she had intended, yet somehow it was
exciting rather than terrifying. The horse broke into a trot, and she smiled. Dothraki scrambled to
clear a path. The slightest pressure with her legs, the lightest touch on the reins, and the filly
responded. She sent it into a gallop, and now the Dothraki were hooting and laughing and
shouting at her as they jumped out of her way. As she turned to ride back, a firepit loomed ahead,
directly in her path. They were hemmed in on either side, with no room to stop. A daring she had
never known filled Daenerys then, and she gave the filly her head.
The silver horse leapt the flames as if she had wings.
When she pulled up before Magister Illyrio, she said, “Tell Khal Drogo that he has given me
the wind.” The fat Pentoshi stroked his yellow beard as he repeated her words in Dothraki, and
Dany saw her new husband smile for the first time.
The last sliver of sun vanished behind the high walls of Pentos to the west just then. Dany had
lost all track of time. Khal Drogo commanded his bloodriders to bring forth his own horse, a lean
red stallion. As the khal was saddling the horse, Viserys slid close to Dany on her silver, dug his
fingers into her leg, and said, “Please him, sweet sister, or I swear, you will see the dragon wake
as it has never woken before.”
The fear came back to her then, with her brother’s words. She felt like a child once more, only
thirteen and all alone, not ready for what was about to happen to her.

