The Other halted. Will saw its eyes; blue, deeper and bluer than any human eyes, a blue that
burned like ice. They fixed on the longsword trembling on high, watched the moonlight running
cold along the metal. For a heartbeat he dared to hope.
They emerged silently from the shadows, twins to the first. Three of them... four... five... Ser
Waymar may have felt the cold that came with them, but he never saw them, never heard them.
Will had to call out. It was his duty. And his death, if he did. He shivered, and hugged the tree,
and kept the silence.
The pale sword came shivering through the air.
Ser Waymar met it with steel. When the blades met, there was no ring of metal on metal; only a
high, thin sound at the edge of hearing, like an animal screaming in pain. Royce checked a
second blow, and a third, then fell back a step. Another flurry of blows, and he fell back again.
Behind him, to right, to left, all around him, the watchers stood patient, faceless, silent, the
shifting patterns of their delicate armor making them all but invisible in the wood. Yet they made
no move to interfere.
Again and again the swords met, until Will wanted to cover his ears against the strange
anguished keening of their clash. Ser Waymar was panting from the effort now, his breath
steaming in the moonlight. His blade was white with frost; the Other’s danced with pale blue
light.
Then Royce’s parry came a beat too late. The pale sword bit through the ringmail beneath his
arm. The young lord cried out in pain. Blood welled between the rings. It steamed in the cold,
and the droplets seemed red as fire where they touched the snow. Ser Waymar’s fingers brushed
his side. His moleskin glove came away soaked with red.
The Other said something in a language that Will did not know; his voice was like the cracking
of ice on a winter lake, and the words were mocking.
Ser Waymar Royce found his fury. “For Robert!” he shouted, and he came up snarling, lifting
the frost-covered longsword with both hands and swinging it around in a flat sidearm slash with
all his weight behind it. The Other’s parry was almost lazy.
When the blades touched, the steel shattered.
A scream echoed through the forest night, and the longsword shivered into a hundred brittle
pieces, the shards scattering like a rain of needles. Royce went to his knees, shrieking, and
covered his eyes. Blood welled between his fingers.
The watchers moved forward together, as if some signal had been given. Swords rose and fell,
all in a deathly silence. It was cold butchery. The pale blades sliced through ringmail as if it were
silk. Will closed his eyes. Far beneath him, he heard their voices and laughter sharp as icicles.
When he found the courage to look again, a long time had passed, and the ridge below was
empty.
He stayed in the tree, scarce daring to breathe, while the moon crept slowly across the black
sky. Finally, his muscles cramping and his fingers numb with cold, he climbed down.
Royce’s body lay face down in the snow, one arm outflung. The thick sable cloak had been
slashed in a dozen places. Lying dead like that, you saw how young he was. A boy.

